helicopters/transport-helicopters.md, before:

# Transport Helicopters

_Disclaimer_ : Hatchet mod documentation is included [here](https://uh-60m.gitbook.io/workspace/guides/getting-started).

The bread and butter of Hawkeye, these birds transport the ground troops to and from AOs, carry OPDEMs, provide light CAS with their miniguns and reconnaisance. These birds also carry your vehicles with capabilities to paradrop them where you want them. With more training we will be paradroping the ground troops from these very helicopters.

## MH-6M Littlebird

> Want to land in a street, land in the street.&#x20;
>
> Want to land on a pier, land on the pier.&#x20;
>
> Want to land on a roof, land on the roof.&#x20;
>
> Want to land in a clearing, land in the clearing.&#x20;
>
> Want to land in a backyard, land in the backyard.&#x20;
>
> Want to rappel troops, rappel the troops.&#x20;
>
> Want to land on a penguin, land next to it and salute the penguin.&#x20;
>
> Want to pick up light stuff, pick up the light stuff.&#x20;
>
> Want to recon, pick up a co-pilot.&#x20;
>
> Want to shoot stuff, wrong variant.



A very versatile helicopter with the ability to land in very tricky and tight landing zones. Although vunerable to ground fire, its manoeuvrability allows it to escape extremely fast.

Can carry 7 passengers plus one co-pilot. 6 passengers sit on the benches with the ability to fire in their sectors, with the 7th passenger sitting in the fuselage of the chopper.

The bubble cockpit provides nice visibility while making approaches to the landing zone and also for scouting potential landing zones.

The radar can only pick up emitters. The movement direction of the target is not displayed. If there is a yellow circle around the target, it means it's ranging you and a bright orange cone means that is now actively targeting you. Start taking evasie manoeuvres the moment it there is a yellow circle. Advised to be start evading the moment the target pops up on the radar. Most probably it might be AA/AAA.

Weirdly enough it can pick up friendly airplanes with their directions. Must be QoL feature for the helicopter from the base game.

## RHS UH-60

The workhorse for Hawkeye in troop movements. Can be configured as both a MEDEVAC and CASECAV bird. It can carry upto 13 passengers. Self defense weapons include two mini-guns on the side along with fire from vehicle seats\[need the cargo doors open for this].

Capability of sling loading smaller vehicles and a boat. Troops can rappel down from each side using the ACE fast roping mechanism which comes default with this helicopter.

This helicopter is less manoeuvrable than the LittleBird. It cannot go into all the tight-spots, such as rooftop landings. It's high speed makes up for the loss in manoeuvrability allowing the helicopter to come into a drop zone and leave the AO faster than the littlebird, decreasing the time spent in the AO.

Very simple flight models in both SFM and AFM. The flight models are based on the vanilla helicopters.

Visibility from the cockpit is limited due to the control panel present in front of the pilot. To the side, the visibility is better. So while making an approach the pilot can come in with a 10 degree offset to the left.

The helicopter only contains a radar warning receiver which works similar to the one in the LittleBird.

## CH-47F Chinook

One of the biggest helicopters in our arsenal. It can carry 24 passengers along with more cargo than the Blackhawk. It is also the fastest helicopter present in our arsenal. Can slingload a humvee underneath with passengers in both the Chinook and the humvee.

For self defence, it has two mini-guns mounted on the side, close to the pilot cabin. No rear gun. It has both Anti-Radar Chaff as well as thermal countermeasures. Use them while landing and takeoff.

This helicopter is not manoeuvrable at all. It is quite sluggish to controls and if the speed takes off, it can take some time to bleed off that excess speed, with a side effect of increase in altitude. Speed can also bleed off quite fast due to the massive rotors slowing you down when flying at 50 knots\[\~100km/h]

Visiblity is extremely restircted due to the size and make of the helicopter itsef. The best way to approach any landing zone is to either have a co-pilot guiding you down or come in with an offset.

Again only contains a radar warning receiver which functions the same way as the Littlebird.

The Chinook also comes in a cargo variant which can take 4-5 passengers with more Vehcile-In-Vehicle cargo space.\[Think 2 buggys with all of Sabre]

The **CH-53E Sea Stallion** is the Naval and Marine version of the Sea Stallion.

## MI-290 Taru

An advanced version of the [CH-54 Tarhe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sikorsky\_CH-54\_Tarhe) with the tail rotor being replaced with contra-rotating rotors. The contra-rotating rotors decreases the space needed to land the Taru. For reference, the Taru can sling load as much as the CH-53E Sea Stallion.

Forward visibility is restricted due to the shape of the helicopter, but to the side it's clear, so for landing or hovering come in with a 3-5 degree offset to the right.

It handles better than the Chinook due to the small size and more stable flight model. It's not as nimble as the Blackhawk. The Taru takes time to build up speed, but keep an eye on the torque and speed, as the moment the helicopter enters Effective Translational Lift, it increases speed rapidly. Maintain 80 knots\[\~160km/h] while carrying pods or cargo. The same thing applies when slowing down, recommended to use rudders to yaw the aircraft to decrease speed rapidly.&#x20;

When flying with the bench pod or bare, the helicopter handles similar to a Blackhawk.

One thing that happens, is that at 115knots\[\~230km/h], and at low torque, the helicopter dances around a bit. Either decrease speed or increase torque with a negative pitch. &#x20;

The base taru can carry the following pods in it's cargo bay,

1. Ammo pod
2. Repair pod
3. Resupply pod
4. Transport pod
5. Bench pod
6. Medical pod

If a pod is being sling-loaded or attached to the helicopter, it cannot carry anything else. So for example, if the transport pod is attached, a M113A3 cannot be sling-loaded.

### XENO Taru Pod

The mod allows the pilot/co-pilot/loadmaster to,

1. Attach the pod to the helicopter.
2. Sling load the pod at 10m extension.
3. Sling load the pod at 100m extension.
4. Shorten or lengthen the sling load rope by 10m. This olny appears when the rope has been extended to 100m and disappears when the rope length reaches 10.
5. Ability to parachute the attached pod above 90m AGL. The pod can be parachuted at any speed.

To drop off a pod, come to hover at 10-15m above the ground, detach the pod, and then unhook it when the rope length reaches 10m.

If the helicopter has landed on level ground, it is safe to detach/unhook the pod, it will settle below the helicopter and the hit boxes will not intersect. Though this is not recommended.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-49: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

helicopters/transport-helicopters.md, after:

# Transport Helicopters

_Disclaimer_ : Hatchet mod documentation is included [here](https://uh-60m.gitbook.io/workspace/guides/getting-started).

The bread and butter of Hawkeye, these birds transport the ground troops to and from AOs, carry OPDEMs, provide light CAS with their miniguns and reconnaisance. These birds also carry your vehicles with capabilities to paradrop them where you want them. With more training we will be paradroping the ground troops from these very helicopters.

All helicopters should be equipped with a fast roping system before step off.

## MH-6M Littlebird

> Want to land in a street, land in the street.&#x20;
>
> Want to land on a pier, land on the pier.&#x20;
>
> Want to land on a roof, land on the roof.&#x20;
>
> Want to land in a clearing, land in the clearing.&#x20;
>
> Want to land in a backyard, land in the backyard.&#x20;
>
> Want to rappel troops, rappel the troops.&#x20;
>
> Want to land on a penguin, land next to it and salute the penguin.&#x20;
>
> Want to pick up light stuff, pick up the light stuff.&#x20;
>
> Want to recon, pick up a co-pilot.&#x20;
>
> Want to shoot stuff, wrong variant.



A very versatile helicopter with the ability to land in very tricky and tight landing zones. Although vunerable to ground fire, its manoeuvrability allows it to escape extremely fast.

Can carry 7 passengers plus one co-pilot. 6 passengers sit on the benches with the ability to fire in their sectors, with the 7th passenger sitting in the fuselage of the chopper.

The bubble cockpit provides nice visibility while making approaches to the landing zone and also for scouting potential landing zones.

The radar can only pick up emitters. The movement direction of the target is not displayed. If there is a yellow circle around the target, it means it's ranging you and a bright orange cone means that is now actively targeting you. Start taking evasie manoeuvres the moment it there is a yellow circle. Advised to be start evading the moment the target pops up on the radar. Most probably it might be AA/AAA.

Weirdly enough it can pick up friendly airplanes with their directions. Must be QoL feature for the helicopter from the base game.

## RHS UH-60

The workhorse for Hawkeye in troop movements. Can be configured as both a MEDEVAC and CASECAV bird. It can carry upto 13 passengers. Self defense weapons include two mini-guns on the side along with fire from vehicle seats\[need the cargo doors open for this].

Capability of sling loading smaller vehicles and a boat. Troops can rappel down from each side using the ACE fast roping mechanism which comes default with this helicopter.

This helicopter is less manoeuvrable than the LittleBird. It cannot go into all the tight-spots, such as rooftop landings. It's high speed makes up for the loss in manoeuvrability allowing the helicopter to come into a drop zone and leave the AO faster than the littlebird, decreasing the time spent in the AO.

Very simple flight models in both SFM and AFM. The flight models are based on the vanilla helicopters.

Visibility from the cockpit is limited due to the control panel present in front of the pilot. To the side, the visibility is better. So while making an approach the pilot can come in with a 10 degree offset to the left.

The helicopter only contains a radar warning receiver which works similar to the one in the LittleBird.

## CH-47F Chinook

One of the biggest helicopters in our arsenal. It can carry 24 passengers along with more cargo than the Blackhawk. It is also the fastest helicopter present in our arsenal. Can slingload a humvee underneath with passengers in both the Chinook and the humvee.

For self defence, it has two mini-guns mounted on the side, close to the pilot cabin. No rear gun. It has both Anti-Radar Chaff as well as thermal countermeasures. Use them while landing and takeoff.

This helicopter is not manoeuvrable at all. It is quite sluggish to controls and if the speed takes off, it can take some time to bleed off that excess speed, with a side effect of increase in altitude. Speed can also bleed off quite fast due to the massive rotors slowing you down when flying at 50 knots\[\~100km/h]

Visiblity is extremely restircted due to the size and make of the helicopter itsef. The best way to approach any landing zone is to either have a co-pilot guiding you down or come in with an offset.

Again only contains a radar warning receiver which functions the same way as the Littlebird.

The Chinook also comes in a cargo variant which can take 4-5 passengers with more Vehcile-In-Vehicle cargo space.\[Think 2 buggys with all of Sabre]

The **CH-53E Sea Stallion** is the Naval and Marine version of the Sea Stallion.

## MI-290 Taru

An advanced version of the [CH-54 Tarhe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sikorsky\_CH-54\_Tarhe) with the tail rotor being replaced with contra-rotating rotors. The contra-rotating rotors decreases the space needed to land the Taru. For reference, the Taru can sling load as much as the CH-53E Sea Stallion.

Forward visibility is restricted due to the shape of the helicopter, but to the side it's clear, so for landing or hovering come in with a 3-5 degree offset to the right.

It handles better than the Chinook due to the small size and more stable flight model. It's not as nimble as the Blackhawk. The Taru takes time to build up speed, but keep an eye on the torque and speed, as the moment the helicopter enters Effective Translational Lift, it increases speed rapidly. Maintain 80 knots\[\~160km/h] while carrying pods or cargo. The same thing applies when slowing down, recommended to use rudders to yaw the aircraft to decrease speed rapidly.&#x20;

When flying with the bench pod or bare, the helicopter handles similar to a Blackhawk.

One thing that happens, is that at 115knots\[\~230km/h], and at low torque, the helicopter dances around a bit. Either decrease speed or increase torque with a negative pitch. &#x20;

The base taru can carry the following pods in it's cargo bay,

1. Ammo pod
2. Repair pod
3. Resupply pod
4. Transport pod
5. Bench pod
6. Medical pod

If a pod is being sling-loaded or attached to the helicopter, it cannot carry anything else. So for example, if the transport pod is attached, a M113A3 cannot be sling-loaded.

### XENO Taru Pod

The mod allows the pilot/co-pilot/loadmaster to,

1. Attach the pod to the helicopter.
2. Sling load the pod at 10m extension.&#x20;
3. Sling load the pod at 100m extension.
4. Shorten or lengthen the sling load rope by 10m. This appears at all lenghts between 10m and 100m
5. Ability to parachute the attached pod above 90m AGL. The pod can be parachuted at any speed.
6. Assault detach the pod above 10m and below 7.5 knots (15 km/h). The pod will detach and land on the ground. The helicopter will automatically start to spool up the pod after 10 seconds on the ground.

To drop off a pod, come to hover at 10-15m above the ground, detach the pod, and then unhook it when the rope length reaches 10m. You can also competely detach the pod using the hook cargo keybind, it will drop the pod completely and the pod and its occupants can get damaged upon hitting the ground.

If the helicopter has landed on level ground, it is safe to detach/unhook the pod, it will settle below the helicopter and the hit boxes will not intersect. Though this is not recommended.
